NAVIGATE
  Move ships along a path through sea sectors.

SYNTAX
  navigate <ship-spec> <path>
  nav      <ship-spec> <path>

DESCRIPTION
  Moves one or more ships along a sequence of direction steps.
  Ships consume mobility with each step.  A ship must have at least
  1 mobility point to move.

  <ship-spec>  - ship uid, range (0-5), comma list, * for all, ~ for
                 unassigned ships, or a fleet letter (see 'info fleetadd')
  <path>       - string of hex direction letters

  Direction letters:
    u  upper-right      j  right
    n  lower-right      b  lower-left
    g  left             y  upper-left
    h  stop (halt)      v  view oil/fertility at current sector
    r  radar sweep here (no move)   l  lookout here (no move)
    s  sonar sweep here (no move, ships only, needs sonar capability)

  Ships can only pass through sea sectors, harbors, or under bridges.
  A harbor needs >=2% efficiency before ships can enter it; a bridge
  span needs >=60% (below threshold you're stuck at "under
  construction," not permanently blocked -- come back after the
  sector builds up more). Bridge navigability has nothing to do with
  who owns the bridge -- any nation's ships, friendly or hostile, can
  cross a sufficiently-built span someone else built.
  A ship at a harbor can load/unload using 'load' and 'unload'.
  Ships at sea recover mobility slowly each update.

  Every step also runs the passive coastal-defense gauntlet: any
  Fortress sector whose owner is Hostile (or At War) toward you, and
  in gun range, opens fire automatically -- no attack command needed
  on either side, and no radar/prior detection required to trigger
  it (range and relations are the only gates). A hit halts the rest
  of that navigate order for the ship, whether or not it sinks.
  Separately, any nation with the coastwatch flag on (see 'info
  toggle') gets a telegram if one of their sectors has you in vision
  range, as long as their relation to you is Neutral or worse --
  this is pure intel and never damages or stops you. Submarines are
  invisible to both of these entirely.

  Any planes loaded aboard a carrier or missile sub (see 'info load')
  travel with it — their position updates to wherever the ship ends up
  once the route completes.

  Every ship passively sweeps terrain as it moves, revealing sectors
  within its type's visual range (bigger/newer hulls see farther) —
  no radar sector or 'radar' command needed. This is the same
  fog-of-war intel that 'map'/'bmap' draw on, so sailing a ship out
  past your own coastline is how you find unclaimed land to colonize
  (via 'explore' once you're adjacent, or 'assault' to take it by
  force — see 'info explore'/'info assault').

  'v' does not move the ship and costs no mobility -- it just reports
  the CURRENT sector's contents relevant to the ship's capabilities:
    - oil exploration boats and oil derricks show [oil:N] (the sea
      sector's oil deposit, same field a land oil field would drain)
    - fishing boats and trawlers show [fert:N] (the sea sector's
      fertility, which fish production draws on)
  Sail an oil exploration boat around checking 'v' at each stop to find
  a rich spot before committing a slower, pricier oil derrick to it.

  'r'/'l'/'s' are the same trick: take a sensing reading mid-route
  without ending the move or spending mobility, then keep going --
  sail a couple of hexes, check radar, continue, all in one command.
    - 'r' runs a radar sweep from the ship's current position (same
      as standalone 'sradar' -- see 'info sradar'), using whatever
      terrain-reveal bmap this route is already updating.
    - 'l' runs a lookout from the current position (same as
      standalone 'look' -- see 'info look'): the immediate 7-hex
      patch plus any foreign ships in visual range.
    - 's' runs a sonar sweep (same as standalone 'sonar' -- see
      'info sonar'), but only works if the ship type has sonar
      capability and is currently in open water; otherwise it just
      reports that it can't, and the route continues.

  KNOWN GAPS (v1): 4.4.1 also has 'M'/'B' (map/bmap of the area),
  'i' (list every ship in the convoy), 'f' (switch which ship leads
  the route), and 'd'/'m' (drop/sweep mines) as inline tokens. 'M'/'B'
  are just the standalone 'map'/'bmap' commands, already reachable
  outside a route. 'i'/'f' don't have a clean equivalent here --
  4.4.1 moves a whole convoy behind one leader ship, whereas this
  port moves each matching ship through the route independently, so
  there's no single "convoy" to list or switch leadership within.
  'd'/'m' aren't ported because no mine-laying/sweeping mechanic
  exists in empire5 at all yet.

EXAMPLE
  navigate 0 jjjj           move ship 0 four sectors east
  navigate * h              halt all ships (stop in place)
  navigate 0 njjju          curved path south then northeast
  navigate 0 uuv            move ship 0 two hexes, then report oil/fert there
  navigate 0 vjjv           report here, move 2 hexes right, report there
  navigate 0 jjrjjl         move 2 east, radar, move 2 more, look

SEE ALSO
  ship  load  unload  tend  fleetadd  build  btu  map  radar  sradar
  lradar  look  llook  sonar  explore  assault
