SATELLITE
  Get a report from a satellite you've launched into orbit.

SYNTAX
  satellite <plane-uid> [sect|ship|land]
  sat       <plane-uid> [sect|ship|land]

DESCRIPTION
  Once a satellite-type plane is in orbit (see 'info launch') and has
  fully regenerated its mobility, this command generates a report from
  it. The optional type argument narrows the report to just sectors,
  ships, or land units; omitted, you get the full combined report:
  text rosters for whatever the satellite can detect, plus a terrain
  map.

  What a satellite can report depends on its type's capability:
    SPY planes (e.g. a spysat)   — detailed text rosters: foreign
                                    sector econ/military stats, ship
                                    rosters, land unit rosters
    IMAGE planes (e.g. a landsat) — a real terrain map (unlike radar,
                                    no range/3 fogging — imaging sees
                                    clearly across its whole range),
                                    plus ship/unit blips on that map
  A plane can have both capabilities, neither (then this command has
  nothing to show), or just one — check 'show plane b' or a specific
  plane's type description to see which your satellite has.

  Range uses the same techfact-based formula as radar, with a fixed
  spy-power of 20 (see 'info radar' for the general shape of the
  formula) scaled by the satellite's current efficiency.

  Efficiency below 100% adds "noise" to the transmission: contacts
  are dropped from the report in a deterministic pattern tied to how
  far below 100% the satellite's efficiency is (not literally random
  each time — the same efficiency always drops the same slots — but
  it interacts with which contacts happen to exist, so the practical
  effect looks like static). Spy-report sector numbers are further
  fuzzed by rounding to the nearest 5 (if the plane also has IMAGE)
  or nearest 50 (SPY-only) — you get a ballpark, not exact figures.
  Land units are additionally spotted probabilistically based on
  their own efficiency (lower-effic units are more likely to be
  missed entirely), and spy-type land units never show up at all —
  they hide from satellites too. Submarines are excluded from ship
  reports unless the satellite has both SPY and IMAGE.

READINESS
  A satellite must have regenerated to full mobility since launch
  before it can be used — 'launch' tells you how many time units that
  will take. No action needed, just wait for updates; check with
  'satellite <uid>' and it'll tell you if it's not ready yet.

KNOWN GAPS (v1)
  - Sector reports always show road/rail/defense as 0 — those stats
    aren't modeled per-sector in empire5 yet (same simplification as
    the regular sector dump).
  - Anti-satellite missiles aren't implemented, so there's currently
    no way to shoot down an enemy's satellite.

EXAMPLE
  satellite 10               full combined report from satellite 10
  satellite 10 sect          sector intel only
  sat 10 ship                ship rosters/blips only
  sat 10 land                land unit rosters/blips only

SEE ALSO
  launch  plane  radar  lradar  map
